---
title: Internal Calibration — Or is it?
author: Björn Döring
description: Still missing
---

Internal Calibration -- Or is it?
=================================


Teaser text about [SAR]

<!--more-->

other text about [SAR].


What is Calibration?
--------------------

Essentially comparison with a reference.

Quote VIM.


Internal and External Calibration in Synthetic Aperture Radar
-------------------------------------------------------------

So how are the terms currently used 

Internal Calibration

:    Some text.

External Calibration

:    Some other text.


When is the Terminology *Intenal Calibration* Appropriate?
-----------------------------------------------------------

Some measurement instruments actually have a measurement standard built in. The process of intenal calibration then referes to measuring this intenal standard in an automated fashion in order to update the relationship between a quantity value of a measurement standard and a measurement result.

An examples of such a measurement instrument is a precision weighing scale like the GP-20K built by A&D Weighing. An intenal measurement standard and a motor allow automatized calibrations.

For SAR, this is not an option. The quantity that needs to be measured is by necessity in the far field of the instrument and therefore cannot be intenal to the measurement instrument.

What they have in common in practice: Use intenal calibration frequently and extenal calibration only periodically to ensure continuous measurement results with low measurement uncertainties.



[SAR]: http://en.wikipedia.org/sar "Synthetic aperture radar"
