---
title: Internal Calibration – Or is it?
description: On use of terminology in SAR calibration
tags: SAR, calibration
---

Calibration is the topic I have been working on for the last few
years. In
[synthetic aperture radar](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Synthetic_aperture_radar)
(SAR), one of the calibration tasks is *radiometric calibration*,
which ensures that gray scale values in
[SAR](http://www.dlr.de/eo/en/desktopdefault.aspx/tabid-6695/10983_read-10126/gallery-1/gallery_read-Image.1.3751/)
[images](http://www.dlr.de/eo/en/desktopdefault.aspx/tabid-6695/10983_read-10126/gallery-1/gallery_read-Image.1.3770/)
are comparable and compatible across image acquisitions and missions.

A good calibration requires one to be accurate, both in measurements and in terminology. This post is about the second, specifically about the (from my point of view wrong) usage of *internal calibration* in %SAR.

**tl;dr**: Go to the [wrap up](#conclusions) if you just want to know
my suggestion of how to improve used terminology.


## The Background: What Actually is Calibration?

Let's turn to definitions. Maybe the best known technical standard in
the world of metrology is the
[*Guide to the Expression of Uncertainty in Measurement*](http://www.bipm.org/en/publications/guides/gum.html)
(GUM), which is the only internationally accepted standard on
measurement uncertainties. In the accompanying
[*International Vocabulary of Metrology*](http://www.bipm.org/en/publications/guides/#vim)
(VIM), calibration is defined as follows:

> operation that, under specified conditions, in a first step,
> establishes a relation between the quantity values with measurement
> uncertainties provided by measurement standards and corresponding
> indications with associated measurement uncertainties and, in a
> second step, uses this information to establish a relation for
> obtaining a measurement result from an indication

The definition of calibration might be a bit wordy, but it stresses
the importance of a measurement standard, a reference with which the
calibration is conducted.




## The Problem: Internal and External Calibration in Synthetic Aperture Radar

So how are the terms *internal* and *external* calibration currently
used in %SAR?

Internal Calibration (ICAL)

:    Internal calibration refers to the process of estimating and
     correcting for amplitude and phase drifts of the %SAR
     instrument. The drifts are mostly caused by temperature changes,
     but component aging or mechanical movement (e. g. of cables) are
     other further causes.

     The process of internal calibration is specific to a single %SAR
     instrument. Internal calibration results (i. e., corrections)
     are never carried over to another %SAR instrument.

External Calibration (ECAL)

:    For external calibration, (calibrated) measurement standards like
     corner reflectors or transponders are distributed and aligned on
     ground. After image acquisition by a %SAR instrument, the
     responses of the known radar targets are used to estimate %SAR
     system calibration factors (most notably the radiometric
     calibration constant).

     After external calibration, metrological traceability is
     established; measurement results from different
     %SAR instruments become comparable.

The problem is that the term *internal calibration* is used for a
procedure which does not comprise any calibration standard. No
calibration is actually happening. In contrast, the term *external
calibration* describes an actual calibration in accordance with the
GUM definition given above.

By the way: A transponder is an active device (it has an amplifier
loop) and, like a %SAR instrument, it suffers from gain and phase
drifts due to temperature changes or component aging. It also requires
what is currently called an *internal calibration loop* to monitor and
correct these drifts. So whenever I talk about *internal calibration*
in this post, I mean the internal calibration of %SAR satellites and
%SAR calibration transponders alike.



## The Resolution: Alternative Terminology

What is currently known as *internal calibration* is a correction for
a systematic effect (temperature drift or component aging). The VIM
defines correction as:

> compensation for an estimated systematic effect

This is exactly what is going on in a %SAR instrument or a transponder:
A systematic effect is estimated by routing signals with a known
amplitude through the
[RF](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Radio_frequency) loop. Subsequent
analysis reveals by how much the amplitude or phase has drifted in
comparison to an earlier measurement. The estimated drift is then
either compensated directly (in the case of a transponder) or during
later data processing (for %SAR satellites, where drifts are currently
only corrected on-ground after the data has been downloaded).

Consequently, what we currently call *internal calibration* should
actually be called **(internal) drift correction** 
and the *internal calibration loop* should rather be called **(internal)
drift correction loop**.




## When is the Terminology *Internal Calibration* Appropriate?

Some measurement instruments (other than %SAR instruments or
calibration transponders) actually have a measurement standard built
in. The process of internal calibration then refers to measuring this
internal standard in an automated fashion in order to update the
relationship between a quantity value of a measurement standard and a
measurement result.

An examples of such a measurement instrument is a precision weighing
scale like the
[GP-20K](http://www.aandd.jp/products/weighing/balance/industrial/gp.html)
built by A&D Weighing. An internal measurement standard and a motor
allow automatized calibrations.

For %SAR, including an internal measurement standard is not an
option. The quantity that needs to be measured is by necessity in the
far field of the instrument and therefore cannot be internal to it.

Practically speaking though, the terms *internal* and *external
calibration* are used similarly for scales and %SAR instruments: In
both domains is internal calibration used frequently and external
calibration only periodically to ensure compatible measurement results
with low measurement uncertainties.


## Wrap up: Recommended Terminology {#conclusions}

In the context of synthetic aperture radar:

1. All calibration (radiometric and geometric) is by necessity
   *external*. So *external calibration* (ECAL) should simply be called
   *calibration*. (Also, every calibration is always *absolute*, so
   let's not use the term *absolute calibration* either.)
2. *Internal calibration* (ICAL) is a misnomer. Calibration always requires a
   measurement standard, but no measurement standards are included in
   what is called *internal calibration* in %SAR today. A possible
   alternative term: *(internal) drift correction*.

Adopting an accurate terminology avoids confusions and ensures
compatibility with other fields of metrology. From experience, it
certainly helps in not misleading students which are new
to the field of %SAR calibration.


